# Soding Task Manager Challenge

This is a very basic “Task Manager” system, which supports Sign up and login, to have control over the person’s added tasks.

Firstly, the user Sign Ups on the platform via their username (unique) and a password. This is saved in a remote MySQL database. In the back, when the user sign ups, the script generates a “base 64 encoded string”, which serves as a “secret code” or “user token”, which will identify the user uniquely, along with the “uid”, which is automatically generated by the MySQL.

As soon as user logs in, they will be greeted with a “Task Manager” page, which lists all the requested activities on one page, i.e., Adding Tasks, Editing Tasks and Listing all the Tasks related to a user.

Adding Task is easy, type the “Task Name” and “Task Description” in the respected fields and click on the submit button. This calls a PHP script and passes the values to it. The PHP script in turn adds the data in to the database. These tasks are related to the user by their Unique IDs and their “Secret Hash” that was generated while signing up.

As soon as the record is added, it’ll be reflected on user’s dashboard/Task Manager page.  All the data is added and shown accordingly.

The third section consists of “editing the tasks”. There’s a drop-down menu which holds the “Tasks” related to the logged in user. As soon as the user selects any of the task, they’ll be shown two fields, containing the “Task Name” and “Task Description”. Both are editable fields and the user can then edit the Name or the Description of the Task, or both. As soon as the submit button is clicked, the data is added in the database and the changes are reflected in real time on the user’s Dashboard/Task Manager.

The fourth section is the delete section. It works like “Editing the Task”. Select the task you wish to delete and you’ll be shown a “Delete Task” Button. Upon clicking it, the task will be deleted and the user will be shown updated records in the real time on the user’s dashboard/Task Manager page.

The application can be accessed at: [http://xonshiz.heliohost.org/soding/](http://xonshiz.heliohost.org/soding/)